Before I had even set foot on campus as a freshman, I had already chosen what extra-curriculars I wanted to get involved in, Kickboxing. That was until the University of Minnesota’s Ballroom Dance Club held an introduction to Ballroom Dance – called “Fall Into Dance” – in The Great Hall at Coffman. 

School not having started yet I decided I would go and check it out, what I found was pretty cool. I was told about the Club and Competition Team and that if I wanted to be a part of the competitive team, auditions were happening that upcoming Friday. I said to myself, “Why not try it?” and decided to go. The day of auditions came quickly and I had no idea what to expect. So, I arrived at Bierman Gym already late, put my heels on as fast as I could, and nervous I was going to miss something important, quickly ran across the gym to get in line. 

In the process of rushing, I tripped on my own feet, falling to my knees in front of every student at the audition. If that isn’t everyone’s idea of the best way to introduce yourself to 50 new people and prove that you can indeed move like a coordinate human being. Then I don’t know what is… 

Needless to say, I made it onto the University of Minnesota’s Competition Ballroom Dance Team and never looked back. Dancing ten-plus hours a week, learning countless styles of dance, prepping for competitions, and bonding with my partners and teammates was something I quickly started looking forward to. Traveling 14 hours by bus to Ohio Star Ball to compete in the National Collegiate DanceSport Competition was something we all couldn’t wait for, instead of dreading like most normal people. 

Semester after semester, practice after practice, competition after competition, my teammates and I kept coming back. This sport, this form of self-expression, was something we couldn’t escape. Nor was it something we wanted to escape from. We loved our team and we loved our sport and there was nothing you could do to discourage us from it. 

This past semester, I experienced many “last times”, as I will be graduating this coming spring. My last time traveling to Ohio to compete in the collegiate circuit, my last Secret Penguin gift exchange with the team, one of my last semesters as the Club’s Secretary… It all seems so surreal at the moment, but I couldn’t have asked for a better team, experience, or support network to help me through my four years at the UofM. 

Looking back, I wish I could have given myself some of the perspective I have now. Then, I was determined to always have a plan of attack. I wanted to know what my upcoming plans for the future were, was frustrated if I didn’t have any figured out, and was even more flustered if the ones I had changed. When I was a freshman, if I could have predicted the number of times my plans would change in the near future, I most likely would have had a heart attack. Now, my plans have changed so many times I can barely remember what they were when I started. And oddly enough, I am very much okay with that.

I never accounted for the fact that my plans could change and I didn’t want to leave room for that to happen. But if I hadn’t allowed it to, I wouldn’t be the person I am today. I did not intend on joining a team like the one at the University of Minnesota, let alone a Competition Ballroom Dance Team, but I cannot imagine my undergraduate career without the support and experiences being part of a this team has provided. 

If I had any advice to give to those beginning their college careers, it would be this: Embrace change and involve yourself. You may come into college with a plan already created, but then you get here and college says "I think I found you something better". I've found that it's best to involve yourself in anything and everything, following where your experiences take you. You may never know what the plan is, but when you find out, I advise that you listen. Not being afraid to follow whatever direction it takes you, or the changes ahead.

Original
